Multi-Salvo Ballistic Missile Defense Using Virtual Targets
Jordan A. Graham∗ and David R. Jacques†
Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, 45433, USA
Isaac E. Weintraub‡
Air Force Research Lab, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, 45433, USA
Edward D. White§
Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, 45433, USA

The proliferation of advanced ballistic threats necessitates adaptive defensive strategies.
This paper builds upon previous research in a 2-D environment by investigating the performance
of multi-salvo doctrines in a three-dimensional simulation featuring ballistic trajectories [1].
We evaluate three strategies: a single-salvo baseline, a sequential shoot-look-shoot engagement,
and a proactive multi-salvo strategy employing Virtual Targets (VTs). Optimal Weapon-Target
Assignments are determined using a multi-objective optimization model, implemented in Julia,
which balances kinematic intercept costs with a time-dependent Probability of Kill (Pk) model.
A full factorial Monte Carlo simulation was conducted to analyze the sensitivity of mission
outcomes to force ratios, kinematic advantages, and weapon lethality. Results confirm that
multi-salvo strategies remain significantly superior to a single salvo in reducing the number
of surviving attackers ("leakers"). The use of VTs consistently increases standoff distance,
enhancing the defensive posture. These findings provide quantitative insights to inform the
development of next-generation battle management systems for countering complex threats.

Nomenclature
𝛼

=

Multi-objective weighting factor, 𝛼 ∈ [0, 1]

𝛽

=

Cost function scaling factor

𝐶

=

Global multi-objective cost function value

𝑃 𝑘,0

=

Maximum kill probability at zero intercept time

𝑃 𝑘, 𝑗 (𝑡)

=

Probability of kill for a single defender

∗ Masters Student, AFIT/ENV, jordan.graham.9@us.af.mil.

† Professor, AFIT/ENV, david.jacques@us.af.mil, Associate fellow, AIAA

‡ Senior Engineer, Control Science Center, Air Force Research Laboratory, Lifetime Associate Fellow, AIAA.
§ Professor, AFIT/ENC, Stat.Associates@gmail.com, and AIAA Member Grade (if any) for fourth author (etc.).

This paper is based on work performed at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) _Control Science Center_ and is supported by
AFOSR LRIR #24RQCOR002 (funded by Dr. Frederick Leve). DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved fo public release: distribution
is unlimited (AFRL-2026-1845) Cleared 15 APR 2026.

