IET Research Journals
Brief Paper

An Optimal Guidance Strategy for the
Defense of a Non-Maneuverable Target in
3-Dimensions

ISSN 1751-8644
doi: 0000000000
www.ietdl.org

Isaac Weintraub1∗ , Eloy Garcia2 , Meir Pachter3
1

Aerospace Systems Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, USA
Control Science Center of Excellence, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433 USA
3
Department of Electrical Engineering, Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, USA
* E-mail: isaac.weintraub.1@us.af.mil
2

Abstract: An engagement scenario involving the defense of a non-maneuverable agent, called the Target, is considered. A pursuing agent, engages the non-maneuverable Target while a defending agent, which aims at intercepting the Pursuer in order to
protect the Target, is considered in 3-Dimensions. A zero-sum differential game is formulated where the objective of the Defender
is to capture the Pursuer and maximize the terminal Pursuer-Target range at final time; while the Pursuer aims at minimizing the
terminal Pursuer-Target range at final time. The terminal time is not fixed and is determined by the interception of the Pursuer by
the Defender. The saddle point state-feedback strategies for the Pursuer and the Defender are obtained using a gradient-based
minimization routine. A comparison of the saddle point strategy against a heuristic approach, Pure Pursuit, is conducted. The
comparison demonstrates that poorer performance is achieved by players who deviate from the optimal saddle point strategy;
and, as a result, the saddle point strategies outperform the heuristic method.

1

Introduction

The modeling and analysis of pursuit-evasion scenarios involving multiple agents represent an important area of interest for the
military, aerospace, and controls community. The utilization of differential games to accomplish the analysis of pursuit-evasion was
originally outlined by Isaacs [1]. While Isaacs’ notable work considered pursuit-evasion in the plane, others extended his work to
include pursuit-evasion in 3-Dimensions. One example of a closed
form solution to a three-dimensional missile-aircraft pursuit-evasion
game was posed by Shinar and Gutman [2]. Shinar also investigated
a realistic pursuit-evasion engagement involving missile-air and airair scenarios using variational methods [3]. Hillberg and Chalmers
investigated a pursuit-evasion game between two realistic aircraft in
a dogfight using distance as a metric for optimization. They took into
account physical aircraft limits such as structural and stall limits [4].
Greenwood designed a realistic differential game in 3-Dimensions
by modeling fighter aircraft [5]. Greenwood used dynamics of two
fighter aircraft in space and even considered firing envelopes as part
of this barrier analysis. Imado and Kuroda proposed a differential
game involving a missile-aircraft pursuit-evasion engagement where
a nonlinear miss-distance was used as a payoff function [6]. Shinar,
Glizer, and Turetsky, investigated a pursuit-evasion game where the
dynamics of the pursuer could be changed during the pursuit a finite
number of times similar to multi-stage missiles [7]. In their paper [8],
the Target had the ability to change its dynamics during the engagement a finite number of times. Merz proposed a problem of pursuit
or evasion selection if both agents were tactical and role assignment
had not yet happened [9]. Related to dog-fights and aerial combat,
Merz’s concern was with the differential game assignment and the
outcome of the engagement.
The consideration of multiple agents engaged in pursuit and
defense of a moving or stationary target has been considered in the
past. Introduced by Boyell [10, 11], the defense of a ship from an
incoming torpedo using a counter-weapon was described. The twoplayers one evader game of Cardaliaguet [12] is an early version of
target defense. In the paper, a two-player differential game is played
wherein one of the players wants the state of the system to reach
an evader, while the other player wants the state of the system to

IET Research Journals, pp. 1–7
c The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2015

avoid this evader. Yamasaki and Balakrishnan proposed the defense
of active Target by the launching of a defensive missile [13, 14].
In their work, they proposed a closed-loop feedback control law to
defend a target aircraft successfully. Using simple motion, Pachter,
Garcia, and Casbeer [15] consider a zero-sum three-agent pursuitevasion differential game. Additionally they considered a case in
2-Dimensions when the Defender was faster than both the Pursuer
and the Target [16].
Previous works have considered target defense but have restricted
the game to the 2-Dimensional plane [16–20]. Rather than consider
the defense of a non-maneuvering target in 2-Dimensions, we consider the problem in 3-Dimensions. By considering the engagement
in 3-Dimensions, we are able to introduce the concept of altitude
to the differential game described in [18]. The inclusion of altitude
and dynamics in 3-Dimensions, are in-general, more realistic for the
modeling of aerial engagements. Utilizing geometry of Apollonius,
we are able to not only set-up the differential game, but solve its
numerically.
One common issue with posing differential games in 3Dimensions when compared to those in 2-Dimensions is the
tractability of analytic solutions. The added spatial dimension begs
the use of spherical coordinates as well as additional controls. In
the 2-Dimensional problem one control for each agent is considered (agent headings). However, in 3-Dimensions, each agent has
two controls, one for azimuth and one for elevation. In total, the
dynamics become more nonlinear, more controls are required to pose
and solve 3-Dimensional differential games, and as a result, tractable
solutions are challenging to find.
In this work we consider an engagement scenario involving the
defense of a non-maneuverable agent, called the Target. A Pursuer,
engages the non-maneuverable Target while the Defender, which
aims at intercepting the Pursuer in order to protect the Target, is considered in 3-Dimensions. By posing a scenario of a non-maneuvering
Target, we consider the differential game which develops between
two players: Pursuer and Defender. Preventing the Target from
maneuvering, a differential game is posed where it is the goal of the
Defender to capture the Pursuer as far from the Target as possible.
A non-maneuvering Target would be representative of aircraft which

1

