Circular Rejoin in 3D Using Bézier Paths
Isaac E. Weintraub1 , Zachary J. L. Demers1 , Jason Shroyer1 , Nathan P. Ritsema2 , and Dillon P. Sluss2

Abstract— In this paper, the interception of a target vehicle is
presented utilizing a Bézier path. Utilizing the Bézier path, the
controlled vehicle is navigated from an initial point and velocity
vector to a desired target waypoint and velocity vector. In
order to ensure a flyable path, control points of the Bézier are
adjusted using a nonlinear program which takes into account
maximum path curvature and vehicle performance criteria. A
model predictive controller is designed to provide the realtime controls which drive the controlled vehicle along the
Bézier path with minimal flight path error and control effort.
A numerical simulation, which demonstrates the ability to
navigate to a desired waypoint and velocity vector for the
purpose of circular rejoin, is provided as an example.

I. I NTRODUCTION
Aircraft guidance, navigation, and control are of significant interest to the aerospace community [1], [2]. One
specific scenario of interest is the method of rejoining on
another aircraft from various initial conditions [3], [4]. In
the rejoin scenario, a target vehicle flies a prescribed flight
path while a controlled vehicle aims at intercepting the target
vehicle. Interception occurs when the controlled vehicle is
within some desired region and orientation relative to the
target vehicle and is accomplished through leveraging flight
geometry and expending energy of the controlled aircraft. In
general, many trade-offs can be made between the control
effort required to reach the target location and the time-tointercept.
A classic means of path planning is described by Dubins
[5]. The concept of turn-straight-turn, made popular by Dubins, kinematically guarantees that vehicles reached a desired
waypoint at a desired heading. It is well accepted that Dubins
paths are time-optimal means of path planning. However,
in three-dimensional Cartesian space, feasible Dubins paths
may not exist. Moreover, looping of the path may occur when
points are close to one another.
A popular guidance strategy which reaches a desired
waypoint is through proportional navigation (PN) [6]. The
PN control law achieves interception by steering a controlled
vehicle so that its direct line of sight to the target does
not change direction as the controlled vehicle closes on its
target waypoint. Utilizing PN, a guided vehicle is capable of
intercepting a desired target; however, the velocity vector by
Distribution Statement Here
1 Isaac Weintraub, Zachary Demers, and Jason Shroyer are with the
Aerospace Systems Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, WrightPatterson AFB, OH 45433, USA. isaac.weintraub.1@us.af.mil;
zachary.demers@us.af.mil; jason.shroyer.1@us.af.mil
2 Nathan Ritsema and Dillon Sluss are with InfoSciTex Corporation, Dayton, OH 45431, USA. nritsema@infoscitex.com;
dsluss@infoscitex.com

which interception occurs is not guaranteed to be tangent to
a moving target.
A novel guidance strategy is defined which is capable of
reaching desired waypoints and headings in a work by Park
[7]. The Park guidance algorithm selects a reference point
on a desired trajectory and generates a lateral acceleration
command using the reference point. In order to perform the
desired longitudinal control, Park utilized a linear quadratic
regulator (LQR). In the final approach, the Park guidance
strategy implements PN.
Bézier paths have been used to generate path plans for
autonomous ground vehicles [8], marine vehicles [9], and air
vehicles [10]. Named for Pierre Bézier , who used curves for
the bodywork of Renault automobiles in the early 1960’s [11,
pp119], the Bézier is a parametric polynomial shaped using
control points. Bézier paths have various desirable properties
including the fact that the curve always lies in the convex hull
of the control points and the path is tangent to the beginning
and ending nodes to their adjacent control point. In Choi et
al. [8], Bézier paths were used to avoid obstacles in a twodimensional plane. Similarly, Hassani and Lande [9] used
Bézier paths to avoid obstacles, but used differential flatness
as a metric for incorporating vehicle capabilities to the path
plan. This paper extends the two-dimensional usage of differential flatness, used in [9], to three-dimensional Cartesian
space. Utilizing the path curvature, feasible path plans are
generated using Bézier paths. One advantage Bézier paths
have over other path generation geometries is their ability
to ensure tangency at a specified waypoint. By selecting the
control points of a Bézier path, one may ensure that arrival
at a waypoint occurs from a specific direction. The curvature
by which arrival occurs is tuned by adjusting control points
of a Bézier path.
Model Predictive Control (MPC) is an optimal control
method capable of tracking a desired trajectory with minimal
control effort. MPC makes use of a moving time horizon to
compute optimal control rather than an entire trajectory. The
advantage of using a subset of a trajectory, opposed to the
entire track, is that the computational effort is reduced and
optimal control may be applied in real-time [12]–[14]. In a
work by Bhattacharjee et al. [14], an MPC is used to formulate a closed-loop missile guidance controller. The controller
regulates the nonlinear missile engagement using a quadratic
program (QP). In a work by Kamyar and Taheri [13], an
MPC is used to control a three-dimensional terrain following/avoidance trajectory optimization. Rather than linearize
the dynamics at each time step, the MPC works directly with
the nonlinear system to formulate the closed-loop guidance
strategy. Similarly, a receding horizon controller is developed

