Cooperative Relay-Assisted Traveling Salesman Problem using Graphs
of Convex Sets
Satyanarayana G. Manyam1 , David W. Casbeer2 and Isaac E. Weintraub2
Abstract— A cooperative routing problem involving two vehicles, a sensing agent and a relay agent, is considered. The
sensing agent must visit a given set of targets to collect data and
transmit it to a ground station. Hardware limitations restrict
the transmission range, requiring the second agent to act as a
relay between the sensing agent and the ground station. The
collected data is transmitted through a two-hop network: from
the sensing agent to the relay agent, and then to the ground
station. Given a set of target locations, the routing problem
aims to determine the optimal sequence of targets to be visited
by the sensing agent, along with the corresponding positions of
the relay agent, to minimize the combined travel cost of both
vehicles. This problem is formulated as a mixed-integer convex
program utilizing the framework of graphs of convex sets. The
formulation avoids “big-M” constraints, resulting in a tighter
convex relaxation. Furthermore, this approach is shown to be
applicable to the neighborhood traveling salesman problem
and can be extended to a three-agent scenario with two relay
agents. Computational experiments are conducted to evaluate
the proposed formulations and validate the tightness of the
lower bounds obtained via convex relaxation.

I. I NTRODUCTION
The Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) [1] is a fundamental combinatorial problem that arises in several surveillance
and reconnaissance applications [2], [3]. Given a set of cities
and the cost of travel between every pair of cities, the TSP
aims to find a minimum-cost tour that originates from the
start location, referred to as the depot, visits every city
exactly once, and returns to the depot. The TSP is often
adapted to suit various applications; consequently, several
variants, each with different additional constraints, have been
formulated and solved in the literature.
Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) are widely used in
monitoring and surveillance applications, and therefore, solving the TSP for such systems naturally introduces new
constraints. In this paper, we consider a variant of the TSP
with communication constraints. Specifically, we consider
a surveillance application where small aircraft must visit
a given set of target locations and gather data using onboard sensors. Due to the criticality of the application, the
data must be relayed to a ground station as soon as it
is collected. However, it is established that the available
communication bandwidth is inversely proportional to the
1 Satyanarayana G. Manyam is with DCS Corporation, Dayton, OH,
45431, USA msngupta@gmail.com
2 David Casbeer and Isaac Weintraub are with the Control
Science
Center,
Air-Force
Research
Laboratory,
WPAFB,
OH,
45431,
USA
david.casbeer@us.af.mil,

isaac.weintraub.1@us.af.mil
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited. Case number: AFRL-2025-4701 ; Cleared 18 Sep 2025.

transmission distance [4]. This limits the maximum distance
from the ground station at which a target can be sensed by a
UAS. In the proposed application, two UAS are considered:
one UAS collects data from the targets, while the second
acts as a relay between the sensing UAS and the ground
station. This setup allows the sensing UAS to collect data
from targets located beyond the distance limit imposed when
using a single UAS. However, to ensure successful data
transfer, both the distance between the two UAS and the
distance between the relay UAS and the ground station must
be less than a specified threshold distance. We refer to this
threshold distance, which guarantees the necessary available
bandwidth, as the communication radius.
An illustration of this setup with two UAS and two-hop
communication links is shown in Fig. 1. In general, the
communication distance may depend on the directionality of
the antennas, obstacles present in the environment, and other
factors. For simplicity, we assume that this communication
radius is constant in all directions. The feasible communication radius between the sensing UAS and the relay UAS
could be different from the communication radius between
the relay UAS and the ground station.
Sensing
UAS (As)

Comm. link

Relay
UAS (Ar )

Comm. link

Target
locations

Ground
Station

Fig. 1. Communication through a two-hop relay network, the blue lines
represent the path plan while the green lines represent communication
between systems.

The objective of this paper is to find a minimum-cost
tour for the two UAS that starts from the ground station
(the depot), visits every target, and returns to the depot, all
while maintaining a feasible communication link from the
sensing UAS to the ground station. We refer to this problem
as the Communication Relay-Assisted TSP (CRATSP). An
important distinction to observe is that while the route of the
sensing UAS is defined over a discrete set of target locations,
no such discrete set exists for the relay UAS. When the
sensing UAS visits a target, the position of the relay UAS

