Probabilistic Weapon Engagement Zones
for a Turn Constrained Pursuer
Grant Stagg∗ and Cameron K. Peterson†
Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84602, USA
Isaac E. Weintraub‡
Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, 45433, USA

Curve–straight probabilistic engagement zones (CSPEZ) quantify the spatial regions
an evader should avoid to reduce capture risk from a turn-rate-limited pursuer following
a curve–straight path with uncertain parameters (position, heading, velocity, range, and
maximum turn rate). This paper presents methods for generating evader trajectories that
minimize capture risk under such uncertainty. An analytic solution is first derived for the
deterministic curve–straight basic engagement zone (CSBEZ), which is then extended to a
probabilistic framework through sensitivity analysis using Monte Carlo sampling, linearization,
quadratic approximation, and neural network regression. The accuracy and computational cost
of these approaches are evaluated in a simulation. Finally, CSPEZ constraints are incorporated
into a trajectory optimization algorithm to produce safe paths that explicitly account for pursuer
uncertainty.

I. Introduction
avigating hostile or contested areas is a common requirement in many mission scenarios, particularly for unmanned
aerial vehicle (UAV) reconnaissance. These vehicles must often operate in environments where detection or
engagement by adversaries presents a significant risk to the platform. To ensure mission success, it is essential to
generate safe and efficient trajectories [1, 2] that minimize the need for abrupt evasive actions during execution [3]. A
key challenge arises when knowledge of the adversarial environment—such as the positions or capabilities of threats—is
incomplete or uncertain. If not properly accounted for, this uncertainty can lead to an over- or underestimation of the
path risk. Therefore, robust planning approaches must explicitly model uncertainty to ensure viable and survivable
routes.
In this work, we use engagement zones (EZ) to model adversarial threats. EZs are regions an evader must avoid to
guarantee non-engagement with a pursuer. Past work has defined EZs using cardioid shapes [4–6]. These works created
path-planning algorithms for an evader to avoid engagements [4], for accounting for two EZs [5], and for many EZs [6].
All these methods use cardioid-shaped EZs that do not directly represent the pursuer’s capabilities. These formulations
also assume perfect knowledge of the pursuer’s parameters and do not account for pursuer or environmental uncertainty.
Unlike cardioid-shaped EZs, basic engagement zones (BEZs) [3] are derived from the principles of differential
games [7] and define the region in which a pursuer can capture a target. Assuming an infinite turn rate, the BEZ model
was applied to generate safe trajectories around a single pursuer. Building on this, in a previous work [8], we extended
the BEZ framework to account for uncertainty in the evader and pursuer parameters through probabilistic engagement
zones (PEZs). We used a linear approximation to propagate uncertainty through the BEZ equation and developed a
path-planning algorithm that incorporated the linear PEZ approximation as a constraint. However, the infinite–turn–rate
assumption is overly conservative for real-world pursuers, and in this work, we provide a less conservative model that
incorporates turn-rate-constrained vehicles.
In recent work, the BEZ was extended to use a Dubin’s vehicle model [9] for the pursuer [10]. Two BEZ variants
were introduced to better represent the pursuer’s maneuvering capabilities: the curve-only BEZ (CBEZ), in which the
pursuer follows a single arc of constant curvature to intercept the evader, and the curve-straight BEZ (CSBEZ), in which

N

∗ PhD Student, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Brigham Young University.

† Associate Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Brigham Young University, and AIAA Senior Member.

‡ Senior Engineer, Control Science Center, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433, AIAA Lifetime Associate Fellow

Distribution Statement A. Approved for Public Release: Distribution is Unlimited (AFRL-2025-5483, Cleared 05 DEC 2025)

1

