Path Planning Using Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient: a
Reinforcement Learning Approach ∗
Qiang Le†
Hampton University, Hampton, VA 23669, USA
Yaguang Yang‡
Hampton University, Hampton, VA 23669, USA
Isaac E. Weintraub§
Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, USA
Path-planning for autonomous vehicles in threat-laden environments is a fundamental
challenge because the problem is nonlinear and nonconvex even in simplest scenarios. While
traditional optimal control methods can be used to find ideal paths, the computational time
is often too slow for real-time decision-making. To solve this challenge, we propose a method
based on Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) and model the threat as possibly multiple
circular ’no-go’ zones. A mission is regarded as a failure if the vehicle enters this restricted zone
at any time or does not reach a neighborhood of the destination. The DDPG agent is trained
through trial and error in a simulated environment, learning a direct mapping from its current
state (position and heading) to a series of feasible actions that guide the agent to safely reach its
destination. The reword function has three parts: (a) an attractive field centered at the final
destination, (b) some repulsive fields centered at the origins of circular obstacles, and (c) a
penalty of control energy consumption (the magnitude of heading change) that indirectly in favor
for straight path. The DDPG trains the agent using these incentives to find a largest possible set
of starting points wherein a safe path to the destination is guaranteed. This provides critical
information for mission planning, showing beforehand whether a task is achievable from a given
starting point, assisting pre-mission planning activities. The approach is validated in simulation.
A comparison between the DDPG method and a traditional optimal control (pseudo-spectral)
method is carried out. The results show that the learning-based agent produces effective paths
while being significantly faster, making it a better fit for real-time applications.

I. Introduction
Path planning in the presence of obstacles has many applications, for example, in engagement zone avoidance [? ? ?
], robotics path planning [? ], automatic driving [? ], video games [? ], space debris avoidance [? ], printed circuit board
routing [? ], geographical information system [? ], and practical VLSI systems [? ], and many more. Different methods,
such as optimal control (pseudo spectral and model predictive control method) [? ], machine learning [? ], Genetic
Algorithm (GA), and Voronoi diagram [? ], have been developed to solve the path planning problem in the presence of
obstacles. While the traditional optimal control method can find an optimal path, developing a high-fidelity model can
be difficult and time-consuming. Moreover, the computational time is often too slow for real-time decision-making.
Genetic Algorithm and Voronoi diagram may not need a high-fidelity model, but the computational time can still be a
problem for real-time decision-making. Recently, reinforcement learning emerged as a popular method for path planning
in the presence of obstacles because it does not require a high-fidelity model and a well-trained agent can find a feasible
path in real-time in most scenarios.
Some popular reinforcement learning methods for path planning in the presence of obstacles include Q-learning,
Deep Q-Network (DQN), and Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG). Q-learning was first proposed by Watkins
∗ DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release: distribution is unlimited (AFRL-2026-2026-1882) Cleared 16 Apr 2026
† Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Hampton University, Hampton, VA
‡ Research Scientist, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Hampton University, Hampton, VA

§ Control Science Center, Air Force Research Laboratory, AIAA Associate Fellow. This paper is based on work performed at the Air Force
Research Laboratory (AFRL) Control Science Center and is supported by AFOSR LRIR #24RQCOR002 (funded by Dr. Frederick Leve).

1

