2021 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS)
Athens, Greece. June 15-18, 2021

Ring Formation Maneuvering with Double Integrator Dynamics∗

2021 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS) | 978-1-6654-1535-4/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICUAS51884.2021.9476770

Dzung Tran† , David Casbeer† , Eloy Garcia† , Isaac E. Weintraub† , and Dejan Milutinović§

Abstract— Conventional leader-follower formations restrict
the follower to a single desired position relative to the leader. To
give the follower more flexibility in motion and to replicate typical human pilot operations, in this paper we propose a control
architecture allowing the follower to converge to a ring, which
is a set of desired points, relative to the leader. The follower
is considered subject to a point-mass aircraft model, which
can be transformed into the double integrator kinematics. For
that reason, the nonlinear backstepping method is first utilized
to design the controller for the double integrator kinematics
with input saturation constraints being taken into account.
The controller is then converted into control variables for the
point-mass model. The stability of the proposed architecture is
analyzed. Finally, a numerical example is presented to illustrate
the efficacy of the proposed controller.

I. INTRODUCTION
Formation control has a large number of applications in
both civilian and military operations ranging from environmental monitoring, search and rescue missions, security
patrol to aerial refueling, to name but a few examples (see,
for example, [1]–[7] and references therein). Earlier leaderwingman formations with nonlinear dynamics are studied in
[8]–[10]. Since then, various directions have been explored
on formation control problems. For example, several optimization techniques have been utilized for estimating the
“sweet-spot”, where the induced drag is minimum, then the
controllers are designed for the follower to reach this desired
point [8]–[10]. Other interesting techniques include using a
neural network to find the induced wake generated by the
leader for estimating the optimal relative position for the
follower [11], or utilizing the line-of-sight angles to nearby
vehicles for maintaining the desired position in the formation
[12]. In recent years, design and analysis by means of graph
theory has become a popular tool for developing distributed
algorithms allowing for scalable multiagent formations (see,
for example, [7], [13]–[18] and references therein). Yet, all
aforementioned results only consider a single desired point
for the follower relative to the leader in the formation, which
confines the follower’s movement and sometimes leads to
infeasible follower trajectories [19], [20].
In this paper, we propose a control architecture for a
formation in which the follower converges to a ring (i.e.,
a set of desired points) relative to the leader. Specifically,
† D. Tran, D. Casbeer, E. Garcia, and I. Weintraub are affiliated with the
Control Science Center of Excellence at the Air Force Research Laboratory,
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio 45433, United States of America.
§ D. Milutinović is a Professor of the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz,
CA 95064, United States of America.
∗ This work has been supported in part by AFOSR LRIR No. 21RQCOR084.

978-0-7381-3115-3/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE

the follower is considered subject to a point-mass aircraft
model, which can be transformed into the double integrator kinematics (see, for example, [21]–[23] and references
therein). For that reason, the controller is first designed based
on the nonlinear backstepping method [24], [25] for the
double integrator kinematics with input saturation constraints
being taken into account. The controller is then converted
into control variables for the point-mass model. The stability
of the proposed architecture is theoretically analyzed and
discussed in detail. We note that a preliminary result on
ring formation maneuvering is first investigated in [26],
where single-integrator kinematics are considered. This paper
considerably expands the results of [26] by considering
the double-integrator kinematics with input saturation constraints.
The organization of this paper is as follows. In Section
II, we present the problem formulation. In Section III, the
control architecture is proposed along with the stability
analysis. An illustrative numerical example is provided in
Section IV to illustrate the efficacy of the proposed control
architecture. Finally, concluding remarks are summarized in
Section V.
Notations. The following notations are adopted throughout this paper: R, Rn , and Rn×m respectively denote the
set of real numbers, n × 1 real column vectors, and n × m
real matrices. We write (·)T for transpose of a vector or
of a matrix, (·)−1 for the inverse of a nonsingular matrix,
k · k2 for the Euclidean norm of a vector or induced twonorm of a matrix. A position or velocity vector without a
superscript (e.g., pf or vf ) indicates the vector is defined
in the inertial frame; a position or velocity vector with a
A
superscript (e.g., pA
f or vf ) indicates the vector is defined in
the reference frame A. Furthermore, a rotation matrix RB
A
denotes a transformation from the reference frame A to the
reference frame B.
II. PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this paper, we consider a system consisting of two
vehicles: a leader and a follower. The leader and the follower
are free to move in 3-dimensional Cartesian space. The
follower aims to approach any position on a ring of radius
R located a distance behind the leader and being parallel
to the leader’s lateral surface created by y L and z L axes as
illustrated in Fig. 1. The objective is to design the controller
for the follower to reach the ring and stay on it during the
mission. For that purpose, we define pl , [plx , ply , plz ]T
and pf , [pf x , pf y , pf z ]T as positions of the leader and the
follower in the inertial frame, respectively. In what follows,
the point-mass aircraft model is first introduced, then the

1580

Authorized licensed use limited to: AFRL Technical Library. Downloaded on July 16,2026 at 23:54:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

