Ring Formation Maneuver: Single-Integrator Kinematics
Dzung Tran∗ , David Casbeer† , Eloy Garcia‡ , and Isaac E. Weintraub§
U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH 45433
Dejan Milutinović¶
University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA 95064
Satyanarayana G. Manyam‖
Infoscitex Corporation, Dayton, OH 45431
Most conventional formation control algorithms consider convergence towards a specific
desired point (or a specific desired displacement) for each vehicle relative to their neighbors.
However, this specification restricts the flexibility in the motion of the vehicles. Motivated from
this standpoint, this paper considers a formation control problem, where the desired position
of each vehicle in the formation is described by a set of points. In particular, we consider
relative motion in a two-vehicle system consisting of a leader and a follower, which is scalable
to a larger formation in a distributed manner. The leader is free to move in 3-dimensional
space while the follower seeks to converge to the desired set of points. We especially consider
the desired set to be a ring of a given radius located at a certain distance from the leader in
this paper. In addition, we propose two control algorithms. Both of them allow the follower
to alter the set point smoothly during the mission and thus increase the follower’s flexibility
of motion. The stability of the formation under the proposed control algorithms is analyzed
using the Lyapunov theory. Numerical examples are also provided to illustrate the efficacy of
the control algorithms.

I. Introduction
any teamwork behaviors can be observed in nature such as migrating birds flying in V-shaped formation to reduce
the drag force and save energy for long trips, ants working together to find and transport food back to their nest or
fish swimming in schools not only to increase their sensing capability but also to confuse their predator, and hence boost
survival rates [1–3]. Motivated by these benefits of teamwork, a lot of research effort has been made toward developing
algorithms for multiagent systems, which consist of a group of robots or vehicles (i.e., agents) communicating and
collaborating for achieving a global objective. One branch of multiagent systems is formation control, where control
algorithms are designed to allow vehicles to form and maintain the desired formation under adverse conditions and
dynamic environment. Several results on optimal relative positions for vehicles in formation flights are investigated in
[4–7].
Formation control has a wide range of applications including satellite clusters, search and rescue missions, security
patrol, to name but a few examples (see, for example, [8] and references therein). Representative results in the fields are
[8–31]. A common denominator of these formation control algorithms is that they define a specific desired point (or a
specific desired displacement) for each vehicle relative to their neighbors. This, however, restricts the flexibility of
the follower vehicles in space. For instance, when the lead vehicle is agile, it requires the follower vehicles to put a
lot of effort to keep up. Therefore, it is crucial to come up with new schemes for allowing flexibility in the followers’
movement while the original benefits of teamwork are still guaranteed.
The contribution of this paper is to proposed novel control algorithms for solving a formation control problem,
where the desired position of each vehicle in the formation is a set of points. In particular, we consider relative motion
in a two-vehicle system consisting of a leader and a follower, which is scalable to a larger formation in a distributed

M

∗ Research Associate, Control Science Center of Excellence.
† Team Lead, Control Science Center of Excellence, AIAA Associate Fellow.
‡ Research Engineer, Control Science Center of Excellence, AIAA Member.
§ Electronics Engineer, Aerospace Systems Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, AIAA Senior Member.
¶ Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
‖ Research Scientist, Contractor for Air Force Research Laboratory, AIAA Member.

1

