JOTA manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)

The Synthesis of Optimal Control Laws Using Isaacs’
Method for the Solution of Differential Games
Meir Pachter and Isaac E. Weintraub

Received: date / Accepted: date

Abstract In this paper we advocate for Isaacs’ method for the solution of
differential games to be applied to the solution of optimal control problems.
To make the argument, the vehicle employed is Pontryagin’s canonical optimal control example, which entails a double integrator plant. However, rather
than controlling the state to the origin, we require the end state to reach a
terminal set that contains the origin in its interior. Indeed, in practice, it is
required to control to a prescribed tolerance rather than reach a desired end
state; constraining the end state to a terminal manifold of co-dimension n-1
renders the optimal control problem easier to solve. The global solution of the
optimal control problem is obtained and the synthesized optimal control law
is in state feedback form. In this respect, two target sets are considered: a
smooth circular target and a square target with corners. Closed-loop statefeedback control laws are synthesized that drive the double integrator plant
from an arbitrary initial state to the target set in minimum time. This is accomplished using Isaacs’ method for the solution of differential games, which
entails Dynamic Programming (DP), working backward from the Usable Part
(UP) of the target set, as opposed to obtaining the optimal trajectories using
the necessary conditions for optimality provided by Pontryagin’s Maximum
Principle (PMP). In this paper, the case is made for Isaacs’ method for the
solution of differential games to be applied to the solution of optimal control
problems by way of the juxtaposition of the PMP and DP methods.
Communicated by Jason L. Speyer.
Meir Pachter
Air Force Institute of Technology
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433
meir.pachter@afit.edu
Isaac E. Weintraub
Air Force Research Laboratory
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433
isaac.weintraub.1@us.af.mil

