Trajectory Optimization For Rendezvous Planning Using Quadratic
Bézier Curves
Satyanarayana G. Manyam1 , David W. Casbeer2 , Isaac E. Weintraub2 and Colin Taylor3
Abstract— In this paper, we consider a trajectory planning
problem where an autonomous vehicle aims to rendezvous with
another cooperating vehicle in minimum time. The first vehicle
has kinematic constraints, consequently feasible trajectories
must have a maximum curvature less than a specified limit.
Rendezvous is said to occur at the instant that the two vehicles
are collocated with the same heading. We propose a technique
to construct a trajectory, composed of piecewise quadratic
Bézier curves, that satisfies the vehicle motion constraints and
achieves rendezvous in minimum time. The methodology begins
by finding safe flight corridors, which are constructed from
sequences of triangles using constrained Delaunay triangulation
of the feasible space; the triangles define the bounds of Bézier
curves. We formulate the necessary constraints for continuity
and feasibility as functions of the control points that define
the Bézier curves, and the resulting optimization problem is
solved using a nonlinear programming solver. The techniques
developed were tested using simulated scenarios, and we present
the results which highlight the efficacy of the proposed solution
approach. Furthermore, the algorithm was implemented and
tested in a field test and those results are presented.
Index Terms— path planning, obstacle avoidance, mobile
robots, kinematic constraints

I. I NTRODUCTION
Trajectory generation in the presence of obstacles for
non-holonomic vehicles is an important research topic with
several applications in autonomous mobility. The general
objective is to determine the trajectory by which a mobile
robot departs some initial state, arrives at a desired final state,
and minimizes a given cost. In this paper, an autonomous airvehicle with kinematic constraints aims to rendezvous with
a second vehicle in minimum time amid a field of static
obstacles. Such rendezvous requirements are necessary in
applications where multiple vehicles cooperatively perform
data gathering missions, and where two vehicles need to
exchange data. The kinematic constraints of the vehicle are
due to the minimum turn radius, and therefore the trajectories
should satisfy the maximum curvature constraints to be
flyable. The two vehicles are cooperating and the planned
trajectory of the second vehicle is known to the first vehicle.
The rendezvous is defined as two vehicles arriving at a
location at the same time with the same heading. In practice,
This work has been supported in part by AFOSR LRIR No. 21RQCOR084.
1 Satyanarayana G. Manyam is with Infoscitex corporation, a DCS
Company, Dayton, OH, USA msngupta@gmail.com
2 David W. Casbeer and Isaac E. Weintraub are with the Controls
Center of Excellence, Air Force Research Laboratory, WPAFB,
OH,
USA
david.casbeer@afresearchlab.com,

isaac.weintraub.1@afresearchlab.com
3 Colin Taylor is with Parallax Advanced Research, Dayton, OH, USA

colin.taylor@parallaxresearch.org

these two vehicles would fly at different altitudes, and a
feasible rendezvous only requires the x, y coordinates and
heading to be the same. The proposed solution approach
is for the controlled vehicle to generate a trajectory using
a concatenated set of quadratic Bézier curves (QBC). We
assume the vehicles are traveling at constant speed and the
objective to rendezvous in minimum time is addressed by
optimizing the length of the trajectory. The trajectories are
defined by a set of control points, and the constraints and
objective are realized as functions of these control points.
We formulate this as a nonlinear program with the sets of
control points as decision variables, the solution of which
gives a trajectory that avoids the obstacles and ensures a
smooth path which does not exceed the maximum curvature
limit.
Dubins paths [1], [2] are very popular for path planning
for vehicles with kinematic constraints in obstacle free
environments. Sample based path planning methods, such as
RRT [3]–[5], were developed to generate feasible paths in
structures environments, and recent advances are proven to
be probabilistically complete. Discrete search based methods
such as hybrid A∗ [6] produce quick solutions and are
thus viable for online planning. However, these methods
are not suitable for the trajectory planning problems with
temporal or length constraints. In our previous work [7],
we proposed a Dubins based planning to address temporal
constraints such as rendezvous problem. Dubins paths are
highly discontinuous, and making fine adjustments requires
careful attention to the discontinuities in the path length as
a function of the path modality [8]. Such methods are not
viable for environments with obstacles.
Recently, trajectory generation using splines such as
Bézier curves [9]–[13] have gained traction due to their
flexibility. In [9], quartic Bézier curves, defined by Bernstein
polynomials of degree four, are considered and trajectory
generation is posed as a nonlinear program. To address the
kinematic constraints, the maximum curvature is computed
using a numerical root finding method in each iteration of
the nonlinear program. Bézier curves of degree five are
used to approximate a clothoids in [11]. In [12], a flight
corridor is generated and trajectories are generated using
piecewise Bézier curves, where the position and dynamics
are bounded using Bézier properties. A similar method
with piecewise Bézier curves was used in [13], where the
trajectory generation is decoupled into timing variables and
path variables. The curvature constraints on the paths due
to the kinematics of the vehicles are not addressed in [12],
[13].

