Virtual Target Selection for a Multiple-Pursuer Multiple-Evader
Scenario
Isaac E. Weintraub∗ , Alexander Von Moll† , David W. Casbeer‡
Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, 45433
Satyanarayana G. Manyam§
Infoscitex Corporation, Dayton, OH, 45431

This paper considers an N-pursuer M-evader scenario involving L-virtual targets. The
virtual targets serve as an intermediary target for the pursuers, allowing the pursuers to delay
their final assignment to the evaders. However, upon reaching the virtual target, the pursuers
must decide which evader to capture. It is assumed that there are more pursuers than evaders
and that the pursuers are faster than the evaders. The objective is two-part: first, assign each
pursuer to a virtual target and evader such that the pursuer team’s energy is minimized, and
second, choose the virtual targets’ locations for this minimization problem. The approach
taken is to consider the Apollonius geometry between each pursuer’s virtual target location
and each evader. Using the constructed Apollonius circles, the pursuer’s travel distance and
maneuver at a virtual target are obtained. These metrics serve as a gauge for the total energy
required to capture a particular evader and are used to solve the joint virtual target selection
and pursuer-evader assignment problem. This paper provides a mathematical definition of
this problem, the solution approach taken, and example. Following the example, a Monte
Carlo analysis is performed, demonstrating the efficacy of the algorithm and its suitability for
real-time applications.

I. Nomenclature
𝑐 𝑖, 𝑗

=

The cost matrix for a pursuer 𝑖 and an evader 𝑗

𝐸

=

Evader

E

=

Set of evaders

H

=

Hamiltonian

HI

=

Hamiltonian before pursuer reaches virtual target

∗ Electronics Engineer, Control Science Center, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, AIAA Senior Member.
† Aerospace Engineer, Control Science Center, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433.

‡ Senior Electronics Engineer, Control Science Center, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, AIAA Associate Fellow.
§ Research Scientist, 4027 Col. Glenn Hwy, Dayton, OH, 45453

